There's an absolute ton of fluff and
highle junk out there when it comes to
doing CRO for e-commerce. In this video,
I'm going to give you the only CRO
tutorial you'll ever need completely for
free. After working with over 150 brands
in over 80 different niches over the
last several years, I've pretty much got
CRO down to a science. And for this
video, I've narrowed it down to five key
things that you need to nail on your
website in order to see the best
conversions possible and the best
possible return on every marketing
dollar. So before doing any
optimization, the very first thing you
need to do is to understand and analyze
your data. And I like to use Google
Analytics for there's a couple key
reports that I'll show you exactly how
to pull, but this is basically going to
show you where are people dropping off
in your funnel right now. what pages are
converting the best and where should you
double down and basically where are your
conversion leaks. Now you cannot skip
this step because you cannot optimize
what you can't measure and ultimately
you never want to make decisions based
on guesswork because that can actually
do the opposite for your conversion rate
and end up decreasing it instead of
increasing it. So the very first thing
we want to do is look at the purchase
journey report. You go on the left-h
hand side here and you're going to click
on reports and you're going to scroll
down underneath monetization and click
on purchase journey. You want to filter
for a good enough data set here. I'm
going to do for the last 12 months. So
this is basically the intraite funnel
which is basically taking you through
the step-by-step journey as people go
through the funnel from the moment that
somebody starts their session. How many
people are then viewing products? How
many people are then adding to cart? How
many people are then checking out? And
then how many people are then
purchasing? There's certain industry
benchmarks that you want to try to
achieve for each of these steps, right?
And it's super actionable because you
will immediately know where are you
underindexed or where are you
underperforming. And this basically
tells you where should you focus your
efforts on at this current given moment
because you cannot do everything at
once. So looking at the data we have
here, we can see the view product rate
is at
28.6%. The industry benchmark for the
view product rate and where this should
be at is 50 to 70%. So, right off the
bat, I can tell you that the view
product rate is underindexed and
underperforming. What can we derive from
this? Immediately, we can determine that
this is probably a product
discoverability issue. So, people aren't
able to find the right products. There's
a lack of streamline navigation
funneling them to the products. So,
these are all potential insights that we
can derive. Then we move on to the add
to cart rate. So, this right now is at
9.9%. The industry benchmark for this
should be 12 to 20%. So we are slightly
under index on the add to cart but it's
not as much as in comparison to the view
product rate but I want to note this
down that this is one big area of
improvement as well. So the next item is
the begin checkout rate which we are
sitting at 50.3%. Now the industry
benchmark for this is 40 to 60%. So
we're actually within the threshold so
there's nothing to you know majorly
worry about here. And the final event is
the purchase event which is at
36.1%. The industry benchmark for this
is 45 to 60%. So we are slightly
underindexed or underperforming on the
purchase rate. But within Shopify,
there's not a ton you can do because
it's kind of a standardized checkout.
Everyone's used to that checkout
experience. This is usually derived
because of, you know, unexpected
shipping cost or unexpected cost. So
realistically, the view product rate is
by far the most underindexed and most
underperforming. And this is our metric
on fire when we do audits of brands. and
we've done tons of audits. The view
product rate is by far 90 to 95% of the
times and 90 to 95% of the brands we
work with. That is the area that they're
most under indexed on. And we're going
to go through a couple different tests
as to how to actually improve this rate
later on. So the second report we're
going to look at is the user journey
report. So you're going to go into the
explore tab here and you're going to
click on path exploration. We're going
to filter for a good enough data size.
So again, I'm just going to do the last
12 months here. Okay. So now I have my
data. What I'm going to do is I'm going
to click on event name and I want to
filter by page path and screen class.
This is basically showing me the
breakdown of all of the different
sessions segmented by the pages. So
199,830 people are landing on the
homepage and then there's all these
other subsequent pages. So what I'm
going to do is expand these items. So
I'm going to start with the homepage and
I want to expand and see where are
people going from the homepage, right?
What pages are they actually navigating
to? Now, I can see that
15,61 people are going to this
collection page here. I can see another
12,968 people are going to this other
collection page here. So, I'm trying to
get a glimpse of what is that actual
journey from the moment that somebody
lands on the homepage, which is
naturally going to be where majority of
your traffic comes, and how are they
going to other pages of the site. So,
I'm going to expand this item here now
and see where do they go from the
collection page.
2,416 people go back to the homepage.
Why is that? Now, I'm going to expand
the homepage a bit further and let's see
what happens thereafter. As this is
loading here, 310 people go back to the
collection page that they were just on.
So, basically the behavior here is
people are going from the homepage to
the collection page, back to the
homepage, back to the collection page.
Super insightful. And what this
immediately tells me is that there's
some sort of navigation issue inherent
on the site. Maybe the navigation
experience isn't optimized. Maybe people
are not able to find the right products
on the collection page. Or it could be a
whole host of other issues. But I
wouldn't have got this insight if I
hadn't done this user journey report.
One annoying thing about J4 is you
cannot automatically calculate the
percentage. So you have to manually do
it. So basically if I was to do this
2416 divided by 15601 and then I'll just
multiply this by 100. So effectively 15%
of people are going from the collection
page back to the homepage and then back
to the collection page. But this is
something I definitely want to note
down. There's another report that we can
do staying here. We're going to click
start over and we're actually going to
look at from the endpoint which is the
add toart metric. What are the actions
that precede that? So we're going to
click on endpoint here and we're going
to click on event name. From event name
we want to select the add toart metric.
Now I want to filter from event name and
go to page path and screen class. So I'm
looking at all of the pages and just
like we did in the previous report. I'm
going to click on the topmost node. Now
I'm getting some insight as far as you
know how are people adding to cart. The
most viewed action is 429. 429 people
are adding to cart from this product
page. Another 321 people are adding from
that same product page, but they're
getting to that product page from the
collection. And so what we actually
derived from this insight was that maybe
there's an opportunity to add a quick
add toart feature directly on the
collection page itself. So the next
report we're going to look at is
basically pulling some basic KPIs. And
this is going to give us a baseline of
where we stand right now. And then as we
do CRO changes, you know, how does that
evolve over time? We're going to click
on reports on the left hand side and
we're going to go down here and then
click on technology and click on tech
overview. And we're going to want to
filter for good enough data size here.
So you can do 6 months or 12 months
depending on how much data you have to
work with. And then I'm going to scroll
down until I find this graph over here.
So this is basically showing the
breakdown between mobile traffic and
desktop traffic. So we can see that
roughly 80% of people are on mobile. The
other 20% or so are on desktop. And I
want to break this down a bit further.
So I'm going to click on view device
categories. So here's our breakdown
between all of the different device
types. And we're going to pull a couple
key metrics to look at in this report.
So, I'm going to click on the customize
report button in the top right. And the
metrics we want to pull, we're just
going to get rid of ones we don't need
right now. And the first one we're going
to want is the user key event rate.
Next, we want the session key event
rate. Then, we're going to want the
bounce rate. We want the average
engagement time per session. And then,
we want the average purchase revenue,
which is basically AOV. And we're going
to go ahead and get rid of one more
metric here that we don't need. And the
last one we want is the average purchase
revenue per active user which is
basically the revenue per visitor. So
RPV. So we're going to click apply here.
And this is my user K event rate and
session K event rate. A user is a unique
person visiting the site. Whereas a
session might be counted multiple times.
So for example, if me Arsh I go to a
website five times that is going to
count as five sessions. But since it's
just me, Arsh, going to the website five
times, the unique number of visitors is
just one. So, it's only going to count
as one user. We're trying to measure the
conversion rate for the user conversion
rate and the session conversion rate.
It's always good to just look at both,
but the industry standard, most people
just look at the session conversion
rate. So, I'm going to filter here for
the purchases because I'm looking at the
total number of the purchases.
Basically, the conversion rate. This
metric might look different for you
depending on how you've set up G4 or it
might be labeled differently. But this
is assuming that you already have G4 set
up. Basically, what we're trying to look
for here is anomalies in the data. When
I look at the desktop conversion rate, I
can see that the session conversion rate
is at 1.4% on desktop versus on mobile
it's at 84%. Right? And then look at the
discrepancy between the desktop
conversion rate for users versus the
mobile conversion rate. Desktop revenue
per visitor is at
$4.13. It's basically double that of
mobile. So what is making desktop
allowing people to purchase more? Like
why are people purchasing a lot more per
visit on desktop versus mobile?
Similarly, the bounce rate is actually
higher on desktop than it is on mobile,
right? 7% higher. And people are
actually spending longer on desktop than
they are on mobile. Again, there must be
something that's better about the
desktop experience that we're not really
optimizing for on mobile. These are all
things I'm going to note down and we're
going to come back to these later on in
the video. So, the next report we're
going to look at is the landing page
report. Now, this is going to tell you
what landing pages are performing the
best and which ones do we need a bit
more improvement on. So, you're going to
click on the lefth hand side and click
on reports and then you're going to
scroll down underneath engagement here
and then you're going to click on
landing pages. So, these are pages that
people actually land on. So, I'm going
to scroll down and I'm going to again
filter for the metrics that I want to
look at. So, click on the top right here
and go to metrics. And we're going to
get rid of some of these cuz they were
already there by default. So, what we're
going to look for is the bounce rate,
the average session duration, the
session key event rate, the user key
event rate, and the last metric is the
views per session. And we're going to go
ahead and click apply. Okay. So, just
like last time, I'm going to filter for
purchases cuz I want to see the purchase
conversion rate. And now I have my full
report. So, I want to look at the
generally speaking the top five to 10
pages. That's what you want to look at.
And you're basically looking at again,
what are the anomalies in the data? Are
there any things that I want to
investigate a bit further later on as I
perform my data analysis. So, the first
thing I notice straight away is that
this product page here, the third most
visited page, has an average engagement
time per session of 44 seconds. Right?
This is a little bit concerning here.
I'm, you know, immediately just
wondering like why are people only
spending 44 seconds on the product page?
You know, this might be something I want
to investigate a bit further. I would
like to see this at that 1 minute mark,
especially that people on the homepage
are visiting for a minute and 2 seconds
and just a second ago. We also pulled
the KPIs for mobile and desktop and they
were much higher than this 44 seconds as
well. So, that's one area of
investigation there. The next thing
that's concerning to me when I'm looking
at this data is this product here. This
is under the slashcolctions slash
products tab. So it's for this
particular product, but that exact same
product is just accessible via another
entry point. One of them is accessible
via the collection page. The other one
right here is accessible via just the
homepage where people can go directly to
the product. Now, the one that's
accessible just via the homepage is
actually converting at
1.53%. Versus the one that's accessible
via the collection page is converting at
1.29%. So, it's the exact same product.
The one that's coming from the homepage
is converting higher. This is another
thing I want to investigate a bit
further. Is the homepage better setting
people up to visit the product page? Is
there a different, you know, user
context? Like, why is it converting
higher? So, Google Analytics 4 gives us
a really good high-level snapshot of our
data and basically helps us understand
the bigger picture as far as how users
are interacting with our website.
However, there is one tool that helps us
go an extra layer deep and that is
Microsoft Clarity or Hot Jar. And what
you can do with Microsoft Clarity is you
can actually watch recordings of people
on your site. You can see precisely
where they click, how far they scroll,
and a whole host of other things. So,
it's really going to help us get a lot
more granular and it's also important to
just come up with multiple data points.
This is the main dashboard here. We're
not going to spend too much time on this
because you can get a lot of this from
Google Analytics. But what we are going
to focus on is the heat map tool up at
the top. And we're basically going to
click on the most frequently viewed
page, which for us is the homepage. A
lot of people like to over complicate
heat maps. And I'm going to really try
to simplify it for you. Fundamentally,
all you're trying to think about is what
are people clicking on right now? Where
do you want them to click? And then
you're thinking about how can we
optimize the design of the site so that
we get more people to click where we
ultimately want them to click. And then
on the flip side for the scroll map
where we're seeing how far people are
scrolling, it's the same fundamental
notion. Are people scrolling where we
want them to scroll? How far are they
scrolling in the first place? And then
how can we rejig the organization, the
layout of the website, the design of the
site such that people are seeing the
information that we want to prioritize.
I'm on the homepage here. I'm basically
going through the content. For some
reason, Clarity doesn't like to load the
image here, but where my cursor is,
there's actually an image just like the
one over here. And I like to do an area
map. So, we can see the clicks here. But
area is always more interesting to me.
So, this will actually let you
categorize the total number of clicks.
And if I actually click on edit areas
here, I can basically segment by the
different elements. So this is my
favorite part of clarity. So immediately
I'm just looking at, you know, are there
any opportunities to cut out things? Are
there any opportunities to optimize as
well? So what I can see right here is
that the image over here gets 75% of
clicks. The title here gets 3.2% of
clicks. the select options button, the
Cape button
gets86% of clicks and then the price and
the reviews don't get any clicks. There
is a fundamental issue here because the
title is actually getting more clicks
than the image and the button combined.
But the title right now is super small
font size like in comparison to the
image. So it's a concept we call visual
hierarchy. Basically it's the flow of
information from top to bottom. So, when
we think about this title here, it's a
lot smaller in comparison to the image
and to the button, but it's actually
getting a lot more clicks and it's
ultimately getting people to the product
page, which is what we want them to do.
Basically, my hypothesis here would be,
can we redesign the section and make the
font size a lot bigger of the title
where the 3.2% of clicks are over here
such that it's more prominent on the
page, we already know it's getting
clicks and we can potentially get even
more people to click on this thereafter.
So, the next thing I notice when I
scroll down on the page is these
sections here are actually getting
clicks and these are just featured on
logos, but these actually don't take you
anywhere. So, people are clicking on
them, but it doesn't take you to any
sort of external site. And the reason is
because the way that these were actually
designed when you look at the site is
they have like a little gray border
around them. So, they're given the
visual treatment of a button despite it
not even being clickable in the first
place. So this is one of my favorite
sections to explain to clients. This is
the shop by industry section where I can
basically see the breakdown of clicks to
all of these different categories
wherein if you click on the category it
would actually take you to the
respective collection page. Right? So we
have woodworking, we have agriculture,
we have painting etc etc. Look at the
amount of clicks that are actually
registered in and around this area
especially relative to the rest of the
components higher up on the page. If we
actually do an area map analysis and we
look at the clicks, we can basically
derive two core pieces of insight. So
I'm going to click on edit areas over
here and I'm basically going to look at
the clickth through on all of these
different items individually. Super
actionable insight is reordering these
sections based on the most clicks that
they're getting. Woodworking is getting
1.06% of clicks, but this demographic
here, the second box, is getting 9% of
clicks. So simple fix, just moving that
above. That should be the first item.
And then likewise, this item that's all
the way at the bottom is actually
getting 1.92% of clicks, but it's the
sixth item in the list. So I want to
move this up. The second piece of
insight is you can see how many clicks
are registered here. But then when we
switch over to the scroll map, we can
see that only 25% of people are actually
reaching this section in the first
place. But it has one of the most
highest clicks on the entire homepage.
So this was a perfect piece of insight.
And what we did was we actually created
this AB test where we put Instagram
social media icons, which are these
little thumbnails, at the top of the
website. And these are basically
clickable icons of those same category
pages that we had further down on the
page because we knew people were
clicking on them. They just weren't
reaching that section. What we saw from
this AB test was an 18% increase in the
conversion rate. So, the next thing we
want to look at is the scroll map. And
we're going to switch over to scroll
over here. And basically what we're
trying to look for is the certain
checkpoints throughout the journey. So
we're looking at the 75% checkpoint.
We're looking at the average fold, the
50% checkpoint, and the 25% checkpoint.
So when I look at the products here, I
can see that there's about a 25% drop
off after the first two products. And
then people are seeing the products over
here, which is actually pretty good. I
can tell you off the bat because what we
normally see is about a 60% drop off
after the hero section. So 60% of people
never even scroll past the top section
of the website or the above the fold. So
that's something important to note here.
But one thing that's a little bit
concerning is that only 32% of people
are reaching these featured on logos.
And we just know inherently based on the
principles of any high converting site,
we always want to lead with social proof
above the fold, right? We want to
instantly lead with trust building with
building credibility. So the fact that
32% of people are reaching here is a bit
concerning. We might want to move this
up to the top. What we're going to do
now is focus on the collection page. And
what you can see here is that there's
effectively four different filtration
options. And I want to dig a bit deeper
and basically see, do we even need this
many filter options? Can we cut down on
anything at all? And you want to do the
same thing when you're looking at your
site. So I'm going to click on area and
I'm going to basically look at the
clicks. So I can see, you know, 6.07% of
clicks are going to this view as
buttoned. 3.14% of clicks are going to
the sidebar. But here is something
that's a little bit concerning. this
show button is only getting 74% of
clicks. Basically, do we even need this
show button in the first place? That
might be something I want to note down.
And what we actually ended up
discovering for this brand was that the
sidebar button over here that gets 3.14%
of clicks, this was actually what people
were looking for through the sidebar.
They were actually able to filter for
different items and basically narrow
down their product selection. So that's
actually what they cared about and
that's what we discovered when we did a
bit of user testing which will be
covered later on. The show button here
that got 74% of clicks. This was
actually pretty useless and people were
actually clicking on this and the sort
by basically trying to look for the
sidebar. So obviously number one there's
way too many filtration items. There's
no need for like three to four levels or
layers of filtration. There's probably
just a need for one or two max. And then
the verbiage around these filter options
like this says sidebar. This one said
show the one over here and then this
said sort by. So there was an
opportunity to basically improve that
experience as well. So what we ended up
doing was we actually got rid of the
show button because it only got 74% of
clicks and it was kind of negligent. And
then we also rephrase the sidebar to
kind of be like a sort and filter. The
other common application that you can do
on your collection page is looking at
the scroll data. And basically, if you
have any more than, let's say, like one
or two products on your website, chances
are that a vast majority of people are
probably going to be dropping off at
certain points of the collection page.
If you have a huge product catalog, and
we actually want to understand this
because then we can position products
accordingly based on where we think
they're going to get the most
visibility, but we can also
strategically place elements at key
sections of the website to facilitate
further scroll through. So what I mean
is this is the first two products that
we can see here. And again in clarity
for some reason it's showing it's
loading here but the image is meant to
be here. But first two products you can
see that 88% of people are reaching
here. So right off the bat about 20% of
people are not even reaching the select
option buttons. 20% of people are
dropping off before they even see the
select options. And that is probably
because of the amount of information
here above the fold. That's not even
necessary. So consolidate the above the
fold. That's one hypothesis. We want to
bring up the products above the fold as
well. Try to show as many products up
front. And that's kind of a common theme
that we follow when we build any
collection page as well. But this data
is helping us validate that insight. And
then as I scroll down, I'm seeing the
next set of two products, 75% of people
reach here. The next set of two
products, 66%, the next set, 57. So
there's about a 10% drop off, give or
take, for every two products that are
being displayed. So then you want to
think about that and you want to
reposition what products you're
showcasing at the top which you should
already be doing. But now you have a bit
more data to understand where in
particular is the biggest drop offs and
how should I really be organizing this.
Then what you can also do is you can put
reduction of FUDs fear and certainty
doubts throughout the collection page.
Maybe in between these products here we
want to add something like our free
shipping policy or money back guarantee
etc. And what that's going to do is
where we know people are dropping off,
we're basically grabbing them back in
and saying there's no risk associated
with buying this product. Continue
scrolling down further. So really
creative thing and we've AB tested this
a lot and seen really big increases in
conversions. Next, we're going to move
on to the product page. So over here,
couple interesting things. Again, there
should be an image here. It's just a
glitch. But right over here, where you
can see all of these clicks being
registered, these are actually page
nation items. So, this is where people
can click on the image thumbnails and
see different images of the product.
Now, if I go to the area map here, and
we're just going to filter for edit
areas, and we're going to look at the
dots over here. This is getting
7.35% of clicks, which is in fact one of
the most clicked elements on the product
page. But the issue here is that all of
these thumbnails are actually displayed
as little dots, right? So, this is an
issue we see often when we're auditing
sites. People buy when they look at
images. the more likely they see images
of the product, seeing it being used in
different applications, lifestyle
photos, the more likely as a general
statement they are to buy. What we want
to hypothesize here is that images are
getting 7.35% clicks. This is quite a
lot of clicks relative to other elements
on the page. One AB test idea is can we
expose these on the product page and
make the thumbnails clickable and visual
as well. Then as we scroll down on the
page, these elements here, these are
actually meant to be phone number. So we
had like a call an expert button. And
when I click on this, what I can see
is.36% of clicks can probably just get
rid of this. And that's what we ended up
doing. And we AB tested that as an above
the fold experiment. But again, we're
validating it through data, right? 36%
of clicks. Probably don't need this. And
we're going to basically push up all
this information so people can view what
they actually want to see in the first
place. Then as I scroll down, this is
interesting. So this entire area gets
21% of clicks and I want to just see the
individual elements here. So color gets
16.68% of clicks and then these upsell
opportunities here get 1.74% of clicks.
The add to cart button gets 1.42%. And
then we're going to look at the add to
wish list. So color 16% of clicks. That
is again one of the most clicked
elements on the page. I want to think
about can I bring color higher up in the
user journey because it's so heavily
clicked. When you click on color, it's
going to change the image of the product
as well to show you the new product in a
different color. On a similar element,
add to wish list button that we selected
here gets 0.09% of clicks. No one is
clicking this. So again, remove clutter,
remove things that people aren't
clicking on, and just simplify the whole
experience. So that's what we ended up
doing. We got rid of the add to wishlist
button entirely. So now let's switch
over to scroll maps. So, what I can see
here is that because this image is
taking up so much real estate, about 25%
of people immediately drop off and
they're not even reading the description
over here. And as a result of how long
this description is as well, only 36% of
people here are actually reaching the
add toart button. There's about a 70% or
so drop off of people that aren't even
reaching the add toart in the first
place. This is again the whole idea of
are people scrolling where I want them
to scroll? I want them to reach the add
to cart but so many are dropping off.
What are the potential ideas? Well,
number one, you know, can we consolidate
the text here? Maybe there's a way to,
you know, make this more digestible.
Shrink this down. Number two, can we
shrink the elements above the fold?
Really consolidate it. Get rid of things
that people aren't clicking on like the
phone number that we talked about from
the click maps and really just
consolidating that above the fold and
getting rid of empty white space. So,
the next big thing that you need to do
is qualitative analysis. Up until this
point, we've covered heat maps. Looking
at your Google Analytics, these are all
quantitative data points. But especially
when you're dealing with lower traffic,
let's say like under 50,000 80,000
visitors a month, quantitative insights
on its own is not going to give you a
ton of data. You need to supplement it
with qualitative feedback. And
qualitative feedback is what's really
going to take your website and your CRO
to the next level. The reason this
matters is because your data might be
telling you one thing like your
quantitative data. It's going to tell
you where people are clicking, where are
they scrolling, but it's not really
going to tell you why. And qualitative
feedback is people actually talking.
You're interviewing your customers.
You're doing surveys. That is what's
going to actually tell you, you know,
why are people behaving in this manner?
Very simplified. When it comes to
surveys, there's just two surveys that I
want you to set up. The first survey is
a postpurchase survey. So, this is where
you're asking people a couple questions.
The first one is, "What motivated you to
buy from us today?" And you can either
put this in multiple choice, but we've
also experimented just leaving this
open-ended, and it's super interesting
what people say. They will often say
things that you might not have even
thought about in the first place. We
experiment with this every now and then,
but I would definitely recommend if you
have less data, just leave that question
open-ended. What motivated you to buy
from us today? The next big question is,
did you have any concerns, doubts, or
uncertainties that almost stopped you
from buying today? So, this is where
we're asking people, what almost stopped
you from buying? And you're going to get
a ton of information. So, for this
client, we saw questions around the fit
of the product, you know, layman terms
around vocabulary, right? Concerns
around whether this is going to fit them
properly, sizing concerns, right? So,
you get a ton of insight from this and
people are already hot, right? They've
already bought your product. Biggest
question I get from clients is, will
people actually fill out these surveys?
The answer is definitely yes because
they're already hot. They're already in
a positive state of mind. We generally
see 85 to 90% completion rates on these
surveys. You don't even need to offer an
incentive. You just literally pop this
up as soon as they purchase a product.
And the second survey that I want you to
set up is a product friction survey. So
basically, you're going to ask people,
is there anything holding you back from
buying this product right now? yes or
no. And from the people that say yes,
you're going to ask them, "What is that
reason that's holding you back from
buying?" Again, you can leave this
open-ended or you can give them preset
questions. What we've done for this
client was we said something else and
only if you said something else would we
leave it open-ended so that you could
explain the reason why. Again, we see
huge completion rates on this. You'd be
surprised by how many people actually
fill this out. And the way that you want
to do this is you basically want to time
it to be roughly around 60% of your
average session duration. So in other
words, if people spend 2 minutes on your
website, you want to put this product
friction survey around the 1 minute
mark. You can use a tool if you're on
Shopify called Okendo. This comes with
survey capabilities out of the box. It's
one that we use for all of our clients.
Highly recommend. And it's very easy to
set up. It just comes with preset
questions that you can pull out of the
box, but also preset templates as well.
So, the next big piece of qualitative
feedback is user testing. And we
actually use a platform called
Userbrain, which is a really neat tool
where you can actually get people to go
on your site. And you can basically ask
them what is your first impression upon
landing on the website. This is the tool
right here. And you can click on get
testers and then you can set up a series
of screening questions. You can filter
by device type, country, by age range,
and by gender. And then this is where
you can actually set up your screening
questions as well. We normally recommend
doing three to five user tests. That's
really all you need to collect the vast
majority of usability issues and
insights as well. So this is literally a
22minute long recording of somebody
going through this site and basically us
asking them a series of different
questions. This is the user testing
template that we use. So you can
actually grab this from the link in the
description. And this is basically our
go-to framework as to what to basically
ask people. The tasks are going to
differ from client to client depending
on what's kind of most critical to your
brand. But this is the general template
and framework that you can use. So
highly recommend doing user test. And
what we noticed when we did user test
for our client for the audit was we
found a ton of usability issues across
the site. People having issues around
navigation, around filtration, uh just
around general feeling around the site.
like a lot of people felt, you know, not
necessarily confident in the experience
based on the website itself and not
necessarily confident in the product as
well. So, you're really getting an
overall feeling of the sentiment around
the site, which is really critical. And
then what the awesome thing is is that
you can do this before you start any CRO
or, you know, landing page changes, but
you can also do the user test after
you've made the changes as well. So,
you're kind of basically doing a before
and after analysis. The next piece of
qualitative feedback is an exercise that
we call review mining. So this is
basically where we take all of the
reviews on a website. So from various
sources, we can do website, Google,
Trust Pilot, wherever your clients are
leaving reviews. Even Amazon is a big
one. And we're compiling it into the
spreadsheet here and we're basically
trying to get an idea of what exactly
did that customer or prospect say. And
you're trying to think of these
overarching categories in which you can
group all of the items together. Then
you're also going to be categorizing the
items by motivation, value, and anxiety,
as well as these items here. And I will
put a link in the description where you
can grab a checklist of what exactly all
of these are and how to categorize all
of these items. But the most important
thing is realistically the main topic of
the message. You're trying to categorize
the overall sentiment. It's
automatically going to get a pivot table
analysis and it's going to count the
most frequent topics that are mentioned
inside of the reviews. So you want to do
this for your positive reviews and for
your negative reviews. So for this
client, you can see that these are the
most frequent topics and we're actually
able to see how frequently those topics
are mentioned, right? So for this
product, it's, you know, fun and social
settings that was the most frequently
mentioned topic followed by the product
is easy to use, product satisfaction, no
spills or mess, etc., etc. And so what
we did with this insight is we can now
reinfuse this and reinject this back
into the copy back into the design and
then in the form of AB test as well that
we execute on the site. The last piece
of qualitative feedback and this is one
of my favorites is the user recordings
tool inside of Microsoft clarity. So
once you're in the clarity dashboard,
you just click on recordings up here.
You can also do this with hot chart. And
what I like to do is always sort the
clicks by clicks high to low or pages
high to low. Right? So we'll do clicks
high to low here. So you can see all of
the recordings here on the left and you
can actually see what device type
somebody viewed from, what country they
viewed from, etc. So here's an example
of a recording here. We're just going to
take a quick look and see what sort of
insight we can derive from this
recording. Somebody's on the collection
page here and then they are scrolling
down. You can see they're kind of
pausing. They're looking through the
products. They click on a product and
now they're scrolling down. What you
just saw there was they clicked on the
color selection. And what we actually
know is when you click on color with
this particular site, the product
thumbnail changes, but the product
thumbnail is all the way at the top of
the site. So color is further down and
product thumbnail and product image is
higher up. Now they want to see what
another color looks like. So they switch
their color and they go all the way back
up to the top. And so this was a pattern
that we actually observed across
multiple user recordings. And that
basically begged the question, you know,
is there an opportunity to basically
bring up the color closer to the product
thumbnail? And is there potential
friction here by having people go up and
down, up and down just by looking at the
color and then wanting to see what the
actual product looks like in a different
color? But there was a disconnect in
that user experience. Now comes a part
of the solution phase. We have all of
our ideas. What do we do with all of
these? So there's going to be a
step-by-step framework that we normally
take and this is part of a proper
experimentation or CRO endeavor which
basically first starts with number one
identifying the hypothesis and what are
key rationale and what KPIs are we
trying to track. Then we're actually
going to categorize those and prioritize
because we're going to have a list of
potentially 100 plus ideas. Which ones
do we actually focus on first? that's
going to be using a framework and then
we want to AB test it because what AB
testing will do is we can measure in an
objective controlled environment will
version A outperform version B so
rationale we're not just talking about
one data point it's two three four
pieces of data that supports our insight
that's true datadriven CRO then the
primary goal here is we want to increase
motivation by clarifying the value prop
and reducing fear uncertainty and doubts
early in the journey the KPIs we want to
measure so are we looking at conversion
rate, are we looking at add to cart? In
this case, we're looking at the view
product rate and we're looking at the
conversion rate. Those are the two KPIs
we want to measure. The next step is
then identifying your hypothesis. So the
hypothesis framework that we follow is
if we do this process by doing XY Z, we
will then generate more leads or
generate more conversions because and
then this is our rationale, right? So
this is the framework that we follow
when writing a hypothesis. So by having
a clear value prop, introducing social
proof and improving visual hierarchy of
the above the fold section, this will
increase the motivation for users to
shop on product pages and therefore
increase conversions. This was the
actual redesign that we did here. In the
before version, you can see the lack of
visual hierarchy, competing elements
that we discussed earlier. In the after
version, we have a crystal clear value
prop. The button stands out on the page.
The messaging is a lot more clear,
reducing the fear and uncertainty above
the fold through this benefits bar here.
talking about shipping, 30-day free
returns, and we're also trying to
introduce the products above the fold. A
lot of different improvements across the
board. We actually ended up implementing
this test for our client, and we saw a
64% increase in the conversion rate and
a 52% increase in the revenue per
visitor from that Amy test. That was all
derived from the data that we actually
collected. Once you have all of your
ideas, you have your hypothesis, you're
going to take that together and you're
basically going to put it into this
prioritization framework. I'll put a
spreadsheet link to this in the
description. So, you're going to write
down all of your test ideas on the left
hand side. And then you're basically
going to rank them over here. So, is it
above the fold? Right? You're going to
put one or zero. Is it noticeable within
5 seconds? You're going to put two or
zero. Two is if it's very noticeable,
zero if it's not noticeable at all.
Adding or removing an element. two. If
you're adding a significant element,
it's zero. If you're not designed to
increase user motivation, it's either
one or zero. Running on a high traffic
page, one or zero. Addressing an issue
discovered via user testing, one or
zero, right? It either it is or it
isn't. Same with this. Same with this.
And supported by tracking heat maps or
eyetracking and ease of implementation,
right? And then this is the basic
framework or premise of how you're going
to rank that. So at the very end, you're
going to tally up all of the numbers and
you're going to get an end result. And
whichever ones have the highest number,
those are the tests that you implement
first. Right? So this is basically how
we go from like an audit for a client
where we have, you know, 100 plus
different changes and how we're
prioritizing changes based on what we
think will be the easiest to implement,
but subsequently also generate the
highest impact or return on investment.
A lot of what I covered in this video
are things that'll take a bit of
feedback from users and data to actually
inform those insights. But what if I
told you that there are just 11 tricks
that you can apply to your landing page
right now to see some quick wins? Would
you be shocked to know that implementing
just some of these tricks can generate
80% more revenue for your brand? If so,
click the link here to check out the
next video where I talk through quick
wins that you can implement on your
landing page so that you can quite
literally just flip a few switches and
immediately become more profitable on
your ads and any other marketing that
you're Do it.